[SDK-3138] Add Rails API interactive QuickStart (#10079)
auth0/docs: articles/quickstart/backend/rails/interactive.md

---
title: Add authorization to a Ruby on Rails API
description: This tutorial demonstrates how to add authorization to a Ruby on Rails API.
topics:
    - quickstart
    - backend
    - rails
github:
  path: 01-Authentication-RS256
contentType: tutorial
useCase: quickstart
interactive: true
files:
  - files/json_web_token
  - files/secured
  - files/public
  - files/private
---
<!-- markdownlint-disable MD041 MD025 -->

# Add authorization to a Ruby on Rails API

> This tutorial performs Access Token validation using the  [jwt](https://github.com/jwt/ruby-jwt) Gem. A Concern called `Secured` is used to mark endpoints which require authentication through an incoming Access Token.

Reviewer: Style guide (word list): access token should be lowercase

```suggestion
This tutorial performs access token validation using the  [jwt](https://github.com/jwt/ruby-jwt) Gem. A Concern called `Secured` is used to mark endpoints which require authentication through an incoming access token.
```

Author: TIL

> This tutorial performs access token validation using the  [jwt](https://github.com/jwt/ruby-jwt) Gem. A Concern called `Secured` is used to mark endpoints which require authentication through an incoming access token.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This tutorial performs access token validation using the [jwt](https://github.com/jwt/ruby-jwt) Gem. A Concern called `Secured` marks endpoints that require authentication through an incoming access token.
```

> If you haven't created an API in your Auth0 dashboard yet, you can use the interactive selector to create a new Auth0 API or select an existing API that represents the project you want to integrate with.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you have not created an API in your Auth0 dashboard yet, use the interactive selector to create a new Auth0 API or select an existing API for your project.
```

> Alternatively, you can read [our getting started guide](get-started/auth0-overview/set-up-apis) that helps you set up your first API through the Auth0 dashboard.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To set up your first API through the Auth0 dashboard, review [our getting started guide](get-started/auth0-overview/set-up-apis).
```

> Every API in Auth0 is configured using an API Identifier that your application code will use as the Audience to validate the access token.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Each Auth0 API uses the API Identifier, which your application needs to validate the access token.
```

<%= include('../../../_includes/_api_auth_intro') %>

## Define permissions
<%= include('../_includes/_api_scopes_access_resources') %>

## Install dependencies
Install the **jwt** Gem.

```bash
gem 'jwt'
bundle install
```

## Create a JsonWebToken class {{{ data-action=code data-code="lib/json_web_token.rb" }}}

> Create a class called `JsonWebToken` which decodes and verifies the incoming Access Token taken from the `Authorization` header of the request.

Reviewer: Style guide (word list): access token should be lowercase

```suggestion
Create a class called `JsonWebToken` which decodes and verifies the incoming access token taken from the `Authorization` header of the request.
```

> Create a class called `JsonWebToken` which decodes and verifies the incoming access token taken from the `Authorization` header of the request.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Create a class called `JsonWebToken`. This class decodes and verifies the incoming access token taken from the `Authorization` header of the request.
```

> This will fetch the public key for your Auth0 tenant then use it to verify the signature of the Access Token.

Reviewer: Style guide (word list): access token should be lowercase

```suggestion
This will fetch the public key for your Auth0 tenant then use it to verify the signature of the access token.
```

> This will fetch the public key for your Auth0 tenant then use it to verify the signature of the access token.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `JsonWebToken` class retrieves the public key for your Auth0 tenant and then uses it to verify the signature of the access token.
```

## Define a Secured concern {{{ data-action=code data-code="app/controllers/concerns/secured.rb" }}}

> Create a Concern called `Secured` which looks for the Access Token in the `Authorization` header of an incoming request.

Reviewer: Style guide (word list): access token should be lowercase

```suggestion
Create a Concern called `Secured` which looks for the access token in the `Authorization` header of an incoming request.
```

> If the token is present, it will be passed to `JsonWebToken.verify` which will use the `jwt` Gem to verify the token's signature and validate the token's claims.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the token is present, the `JsonWebToken.verify` will use the `jwt` Gem to verify the token's signature and validate the token's claims.
```

> In addition to verifiying that the Access Token included in the request is valid, the Concern also includes a mechanism for checking that the token has the sufficient **scope** to access the requested resources.

Reviewer: Style guide (word list): access token should be lowercase

```suggestion
In addition to verifiying that the access token included in the request is valid, the Concern also includes a mechanism for checking that the token has the sufficient **scope** to access the requested resources.
```

> In addition to verifiying that the access token included in the request is valid, the Concern also includes a mechanism for checking that the token has the sufficient **scope** to access the requested resources.
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In addition to verifying that the access token, the Concern also includes a mechanism for confirming the token has the sufficient **scope** to access the requested resources.
```

> To look for a particular `scope` in an Access Token, provide an array of required scopes and check if they are present in the payload of the token.

Reviewer: Style guide (word list): access token should be lowercase

```suggestion
To look for a particular `scope` in an access token, provide an array of required scopes and check if they are present in the payload of the token.
```

In this example we define a `SCOPES` array for all protected routes, specifying the required scopes for each one.

For the `/private-scoped` route, the scopes defined will be intersected with the scopes coming in the payload, to determine if it contains one or more items from the other array.

## Create the public endpoint {{{ data-action=code data-code="app/controllers/public_controller.rb" }}}

Create a controller to handle the public endpoint `/api/public`.

> The `/public` endpoint does not require to use the `Secured` concern as it is accessible to non-authenticated requests.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `/public` endpoint does not require the `Secured` concern as it is accessible to non-authenticated requests.
```

## Create the private endpoints {{{ data-action=code data-code="app/controllers/private_controller.rb" }}}

Create a controller to handle the private endpoints: `/api/private` and `/api/private-scoped`.

`/api/private` is available for authenticated requests containing an Access Token with no additional scopes.

> `/api/private-scoped` is available for authenticated requests containing an Access Token with the `read:messages` scope granted 

Reviewer: Style guide (word list): access token should be lowercase

```suggestion
`/api/private-scoped` is available for authenticated requests containing an access token with the `read:messages` scope granted 
```

> The protected endpoints need to include the `Secured` concern. The scopes required for each one are defined in the code of the `Secured` concern.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The protected endpoints need to include the `Secured` concern. The `Secured` concern contains the required scopes for each endpoint.
```

<%= include('../_includes/_call_api') %>

::::checkpoint
:::checkpoint-default
Now that you have configured your application, run your application to verify that:
* `GET /api/public` is available for non-authenticated requests.
* `GET /api/private` is available for authenticated requests.
* `GET /api/private-scoped` is available for authenticated requests containing an Access Token with the `read:messages` scope.
:::

:::checkpoint-failure

> Sorry about that. Here's a couple things to double check:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If your application did not start successfully:
```

> * make sure the token is added as the `Authorization` header

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Verify you added the token as the `Authorization` header
```

> * does the token have the correct scopes? You can use [jwt.io](https://jwt.io/) to verify.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Ensure the token has the correct scopes. Verify with [jwt.io](https://jwt.io/).
```
